# 0: Introduction to the series articles

This is a series articles for participating the [ITHelp Ironman Competition](https://ithelp.ithome.com.tw/ironman) hosted by ITHome in Taiwan. The participator of the competition needs to write technical articles for 30 days without any day break.

## About the series

This is my third time entering this competition. According to my experience, the page design of ITHelp is not easy for finding old articles in a series, and the most important thing is that ITHelp cannot support `Rust` syntax highlight well. Therefore I also put the series in a [gitbook](https://tigercosmos.xyz/lets-build-dbms/) on my website. It's recommended to read the version of gitbook. You can still read articles on [ITHelp](https://ithelp.ithome.com.tw/users/20103745/ironman/1913).

## Why I write it

I am not an expert of database management systems (DBMS) or SQL languages. This series is for a proof of concept on DBMS on the purpose of practicing, but not a textbook for the concept of DBMS. I am learning by doing. For doing that, I create the project, [StellarSQL](https://github.com/tigercosmos/StellarSQL), which is a minimal DBMS implemented in Rust. I will start working on StellarSQL from scratch. In the meanwhile, I will also introduce some concepts of DBMS and explain why I am doing that way on the project in articles. The series is just following the process of StellarSQL.

## Expectation

Practicing makes better. I am just a junior on DBMS, I am not familiar with Rust programing, and I am also not a native English speaker. I am studying through writing this series, and hope you can learn something from the articles.
