# 10: Lexical Scanner Implementation (2)

2018/10/25

I modify some part that I wrote yesterday.

!FILENAME src/sql/symbol.rs

```rust
pub struct Symbol<'a> {
    name: &'a str,
    len: usize,
    token: Token,
    group: Group,
}
```

I change `Symbol.name` from `String` to `&str` type, because `String` type stores data in the heap and `&str` stores at the stack. There is no reason we should store `name` in heap, since `name` is a fixed value and put it in the stack would be faster.

You would notice the `<'a>` syntax, it is the lifetime syntax in rust. The `&str` usually live only in the scope, so I need to tell the compiler that `name` should live as long as `Symbol`.

!FILENAME src/sql/symbol.rs

```rust
pub enum Group {
    DataType,
    DoubleKeyword,
    MultiKeyword,
    Function,
    Keyword,
}
```

I add more enums in `Group`, where `DataType` includes `Int`, `Char`, etc., and `DoubleKeyword` means the a two-word keywords.

!FILENAME src/sql/symbol.rs

```rust
pub enum Token {
    /* SQL Keywords */

    //...
    //...

    /* SQL Function */
    AVG,
    COUNT,
    MAX,
    MIN,
    SUM,

    /* SQL Data Type */
    Char,
    Double,
    Float,
    Int,
    Varchar,
}
```

I update struct `Token`. There is only `Keywords` part yesterday, and I fill up `Function` and `Data Type`. I just plan to implement `Functions` and `Data Type` listed in `Token`, though other DBMS implement more.

You might wonder what is the difference between `Varchar` and `Char`. According to MySQL document, the `Char` and `Varchar` types are similar, but differ in the way they are stored and retrieved. They also differ in maximum length and in whether trailing spaces are retained.

The `Char` and `Varchar` types are declared with a length that indicates the maximum number of characters you want to store. For example, `CHAR(30)` can hold up to `30` characters.

The table shows the difference.

Value|CHAR(4)|Storage Required |VARCHAR(4)|Storage Required
-|-|:-:|-|:-:
''|'    '|4 bytes|''|1 byte
'ab'|'ab  ' |4 bytes|'ab'|3 bytes
'abcd' |'abcd'| 4 bytes|'abcd'|5 bytes
'abcdefgh'|'abcd'|4 bytes|'abcd'|5 bytes

!FILENAME src/sql/symbol.rs

```rust
lazy_static! {
    /// A static struct of token hashmap storing all tokens
    pub static ref SYMBOLS: HashMap<&'static str, Symbol<'static>> = {
        let mut m = HashMap::new();

        // The following is maintained by hand according to `Token`
        /* SQL Keywords */
        m.insert("add", sym("add", Token::Add, Group::Keyword));
        m.insert(
            "add constraint",
            sym("add constraint", Token::AddConstraint, Group::Keyword),
        );

        // ...
        // ...
        // ...

        m // return m
    };
}
```

I store all `Symbol` to `SYMBOLS` hashmap for later use by the scanner.

In C++, we can define and export a list, an array, or a map with value. Other file could simply `include` the `.h` or `.cc` to use the exported variable.

However in Rust, we cannot do that without crates help (crate is a third party module). So, I use `lazy_static` here, it helps us to export the hashmap just like C++. Using the macro `lazy_static!` (You could see a macro as a decorator in Rust), it is possible to have statics that require code to be executed at runtime in order to be initialized.

Note that the lifetime of the `SYMBOLS` should be `static`, which mean it and its content should live in the whole life of the program. So, you could see the type is `HashMap<&'static str, Symbol<'static>>`.

All that remains to do are lots of "dirty works". As you could see, I need to `insert` all `Symbol` in `SYMBOLS`. This is a boring job by hand, but I still need to that. (Of course I write a simple script to make it easier)

Today commits:

- `74adcd01220e3b73947dcfa1d6ff83101953f843` sql: update Symbol, Group, Token. Implement SYMBOLS
- `46a3ce29ab482197baebceb4197502e46e17b8ac` travis: add cargo test
- `1257a38bdcb0f76e76f00ac70c5d5a4773462c1b` crate: add lazy_static
- `7bf3f54b8ef0a6cfd3803d646fe7bb42a9d93307` sql: let symbol pub