# 2: Basic Concept of Server

2018/10/17

I would like to enforce me spending at most 3 hours on this series and developing StellarSQL each day. I am still studying in college now, so I cannot spend too much time on this. I cannot write too much words because it costs lots of time reading the source code of other DBMS and thinking about how to implement on StellarSQL.

As I mentioned yesterday, DBMS runs on servers. Therefore, before we develop modules of SQL parsing or database handling, we need to implement server functions.

The server part of a DBMS isn't different too much from any other backend services. You can just think we are going to develop a server and add some DBMS modules on it.

## Shoulders of Giants

Let's take a glimpse at how MySQL does on the server part. It is always good to stand on the shoulders of giants. The "[The Skeleton of the Server Code](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/internals/en/guided-tour-skeleton.html)" in the internal guide of MySQL shows the underlying concepts about what a server of DBMS does. It's recommended to read that guide before reading the following parts.

Basically, I would like to follow MySQL architecture when I implement StellarSQL, but in a simplified way. I would refers some good parts in other open sources projects when I develop the project.

The following snippet is the simplified server code of MySQL:

!FILENAME /sql/mysqld.cc

```cc
  int main(int argc, char **argv)
  {
    _cust_check_startup();
    (void) thr_setconcurrency(concurrency);
    init_ssl();
    server_init();                              // 'bind' + 'listen'
    init_server_components();
    start_signal_handler();
    acl_init((THD *)0, opt_noacl);
    init_slave();
    create_shutdown_thread();
    create_maintenance_thread();
    handle_connections_sockets(0);
    DBUG_PRINT("quit",("Exiting main thread"));
    exit(0);
  }
```

All functions are very straightforward. `init_ssl` runs OpenSSL. `server_init` and `init_server_components` are just doing as their names. `start_signal_handler` is for interrupt and (a)synchronous procedures. `handle_connections_sockets` is for the connections.

Now we have the idea of how to do. So let's work on StellarSQL.

## Tokio.rs in StellarSQL

As you can see the source code of MySQL has implemented lots of underlying functions by themselves, including lock, signal, IPC, socket and others. I am just going to do a proof of concept project of DBMS, so I would not implement such detail modules.

I would use [Tokio.rs](https://tokio.rs/docs/overview/) in StellarSQL. This framework has done some underlying modules already, so I can focus on implementation parts of SQL and database.

According to the official website of Tokio.rs:

> Tokio is an event-driven, non-blocking I/O platform for writing asynchronous applications with Rust. At a high level, it provides a few major components:
> - A multithreaded, work-stealing based task scheduler.
> - A reactor backed by the operating system’s event queue (epoll, kqueue, IOCP, etc…).
> - Asynchronous TCP and UDP sockets.
> These components provide the runtime components necessary for building an asynchronous application.

Looks like Tokio.rs is so powerful, isn't it?

Then, I will use Tokio.rs to implement the basic parts of StellarSQL tomorrow.

I have run out the time today (remember the rule of 3-hours limitation?), so see you tomorrow!
