# 7: SQL Parser

2018/10/22

Until now, StellarSQL has been able to receive message from and send answer back to clients. That's good. It is a server, but it still cannot do works of database management.

Further, only with SQL parser, storage engine, and data engine, StellarSQL could be called a real DBMS.

These modules should be implemented in order, so let's talk about the SQL parser first.

For any message sent from client, it must be a query in SQL format. The query could be "create table", "insert data", "delete date", etc. In order to understand the query, we need a SQL parser.

Generally speaking, DBMS has a parser includes a lexical scanner and a grammar rule module. The lexical scanner splits the entire query into tokens (keywords or domain name), and the grammar rule module finds a combination of SQL grammar rules that produce this sequence, and process the code associated with those rules.

For example:

```sql
SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE Country = 'Mexico';
```

The lexical scanner breaks a SQL query above into tokens as:

- `SELECT`
- `*`
- `FROM`
- `Customers`
- `WHERE`
- `Country`
- `=`
- `Mexico`

A semicolon means the end of a query, so not it is not counted here.

Furthermore, the grammar rule module applies rules for these tokens, such as:

- `SELECT` keyword is before columns
- `From` keyword is before tables
- `Where` keyword stands for conditions

A mature DBMS also does lots of optimizations. As you can imagine, the complexity of a SQL query requires an equally complex structure that efficiently stores the information needed for executing every possible SQL statement.

For example, according to the book, "[Understanding MySQL Internals](https://www.safaribooksonline.com/library/view/understanding-mysql-internals/0596009577/ch09s02.html)", MySQL optimizer does some important tasks (I just list a few):

- Determine which keys can be used to retrieve the records from tables, and choose the best one for each table.

- Determine the order in which tables should be joined when more than one table is present in the query.

- Eliminate unused tables from the join.

- Determine whether keys can be used for ORDER BY and GROUP BY.

In the next days, I am going to implement the SQL parser. However, I am afraid that I could only implement it with basic algorithm. The optimizer is a huge engineering, not to mention my lack of time due to preparing midterm exams.

The good news is that StellarSQL can parse SQL soon. :)

***Reference***

- [MySQL Reference Manual](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en)
- [Understanding MySQL Internals CH9](https://www.safaribooksonline.com/library/view/understanding-mysql-internals/0596009577/ch09.html)